Add GHC-25897 (#448)
haskellfoundation/error-message-index: message-index/messages/GHC-25897/index.md

---
title: GADT pattern match must have a known result type
summary: A pattern match on a GADT cannot succeed unless GHC knows the result type of the pattern match.
severity: error
introduced: 9.6.1
---

> A pattern match on a GADT cannot succeed unless GHC knows the result
> type of the pattern match, for example because the pattern match has a
> type signature, or because the type of the pattern match can be
> inferred from its context.

Reviewer: Minor nitpick: I think that this "for example" is a bit confusing - my first read was that it was providing examples of reasons that this knowledge was needed, rather than ways in which it could be found. Here's one rephrasing that I think addresses it:

```suggestion
A pattern match on a GADT cannot succeed unless GHC knows the result
type of the pattern match. This information might, for example, be derived from a type
signature, or by type inference due to the context in which the pattern match occurs.
```

To solve the problem you must somehow tell GHC the type of the pattern
match.  For example, in the below error message GHC suggests giving
the pattern match a type signature.

```
example1.hs:14:9: error: [GHC-25897]
    • Could not deduce ‘p ~ Bool’
      from the context: x ~ A
        bound by a pattern with constructor: FA :: F A,
                 in a \case alternative
        at test17.hs:14:3-4
      ‘p’ is a rigid type variable bound by
        the inferred type of foo1 :: F x -> p
        at test17.hs:(13,1)-(15,13)
    • In the expression: True
      In a \case alternative: FA -> True
      In the expression:
        \case
          FA -> True
          FB -> False
    • Relevant bindings include
        foo1 :: F x -> p (bound at test17.hs:13:1)
    Suggested fix: Consider giving ‘foo1’ a type signature
   |
14 |   FA -> True
   |         ^^^^

> ```

Reviewer: This message is really associated with `example1` rather than with the overall description - what about moving it to `example1/index.md` along with a brief specific description of the  example, along the lines of "This example uses a GADT pattern match in the definition `foo1`, which has no type signature. Adding a type signature causes the example to be accepted."
